# temp
The ionizing photon budget of young massive star clumps in local high-z galaxies analogues

One of the key questions concerning the escape of Lyman radiation from galaxies is how the galaxy environment affects the path that photons may take and, eventually, if they can escape form the galaxy. In addition, the release of energy from stellar clusters into the ambient medium can leave an imprint on the ISM, changing its properties and affecting the future escape of radiation. A link between stellar clusters (where this radiation is released into the galaxy) and the surrounding ISM can help understanding how the complexity of the galaxy environment affects the final result. This link requires the access to the sub galactic scales and properties. The Lyman-alpha reference sample (LARS) provides a sample of 14 starburst galaxies observed with the Hubble Space Telescope (HST). These local galaxies (z = 0.028 - 0.19) have been selected to have moderately high EW(Ha), to ensure the selection of star-forming systems, and far UV luminosities comparable to those of high-redshift Lya emitters and Lyman Break Galaxies. The exquisite multiband HST coverage obtained (8 filters from FUV to i band) allows us to separate the contributions of the ISM and of the stellar content, obtaining 2D maps of Ha and Lya emissions, as well as of stellar ages and masses. In particular, thanks to the HST spatial resolution, we resolve clumps with sizes down to 20 pc, characterizing where the ionizing radiation from young star is produced all over the galaxies. The accurate study of the properties of young star-forming clumps allows us to estimate the amount of ionizing energy injected into the galaxy (the Q-value) by each of them. The spatial resolution adds the knowledge of where this radiation is produced inside the galaxies and the comparison to the 2D emission maps has the key role of helping understanding how the produced radiation makes its way outside the galaxy. The possibility of studying different environments both within single galaxies and between different galaxies of the sample provides the opportunity to understand how the galactic environment affects the escape of Lyman radiation. 
